# Pupperfield

Pupperfield is a front end application for people to search, view, filter, and match puppies. It was started as a take-home assignment for an interview at Fetch Rewards. It is not recommended to view it in a mobile device because a responsive layout is yet to be implemented.

## Getting Started

Please install Node.js v22 with npm v10/v11. It is recommended to follow https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ohBFbA0O6hs to do this.

1. Enter the folder in the command line and run `npm i` to install the packages.
2. Execute `npm run dev` and follow the instructions in the shell to start the application.

### Testing

You will need Docker installed by following https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/.

If you want to test integration with [pupperfield-service](https://github.com/imliuyzh/pupperfield-service), please finish starting it first before moving on.

1. Run `npm run test:init` to bring up the Playwright container. When a WebSocket address shows up, type `npm run test` or `npm run test:ui` to do the testing in console or UI mode.
   - UI mode only supports Blink-based browsers like Chromium.
   - Note the tests can be flaky due to direct usage of Fetch Rewards' API. Unfortunately, mocking a server is too laborious and therefore this project must rely on its API.
2. Stop the Playwright container with `docker stop <container-id>` and it will clean up by itself. Find `<container-id>` by doing `docker ps -a`.

## Problem Statement

Here at Fetch, we love dogs, and hope you do too! Your task is to build a website to help a dog-lover like yourself search through a database of shelter dogs, with the hope of finding a lucky dog a new home!

### General Requirements

You first should have users enter their name and email on a login screen. Then, you should use this information to hit our login endpoint to authenticate with our service (see API Reference below).

Once a user is successfully authenticated, they should be brought to a search page where they can browse available dogs. This page must meet the following requirements:

- Users must be able to filter by breed
- Results should be paginated
- Results should be sorted alphabetically by breed by default. Users should be able to modify this sort to be ascending or descending.
- All fields of the Dog object (except for id) must be presented in some form

Users should be able to select their favorite dogs from the search results. When finished searching, they should be able to generate a match based on dogs added to the favorites list. A single match will be generated by sending all favorited dog IDs to the /dogs/match endpoint. You should display this match however you see fit.

As for everything else, you have free rein, so get creative! We strongly encourage you to go beyond the minimum requirements to build something that showcases your strengths.

You may find it helpful to make use of a component library.

#### Additional Requirements

- Your app should be hosted on the internet where it can be visited and interacted with
- Your source code should be stored in a git repository and hosted on the internet (i.e. GitHub)
- You should include any necessary documentation to run your site locally

### How to submit

Please provide a link to your deployed site and your public code repository via Greenhouse.

#### How will this exercise be evaluated?

An engineer will review the code you submit. You will be evaluated based on:

- Code quality
- Use of best practices
- Fulfillment of minimum requirements
- Site usability/UX

#### Can I provide a private repository?

If at all possible, we prefer a public repository because we do not know which engineer will be evaluating your submission. If you are still uncomfortable providing a public repository, you can work with your recruiter to provide access to the reviewing engineer.

#### How long do I have to complete the exercise?

There is no time limit for the exercise. Out of respect for your time, we designed this exercise with the intent that it should take you a few hours. However, you may take as much time as you need to complete the work.

For any further questions or clarifications, please reach out to your recruiter.

### API Reference

We provide our own backend to facilitate searching/fetching dog info. The base URL is https://frontend-take-home-service.fetch.com.

#### Data Model

Here is the Typescript interface for the Dog objects returned by our API:

```typescript
interface Dog {
    id: string
    img: string
    name: string
    age: number
    zip_code: string
    breed: string
}
```

#### Authentication

You will need to hit the login endpoint in order to access other endpoints. A successful request to the login endpoint will return an auth cookie included in the set-cookie response header. It’s an HttpOnly cookie, so you will not be able to access this value from any Javascript code (nor should you need to). Your browser will automatically send this cookie with all successive credentialed requests to the API. Note that you will need to pass a config option in order to send credentials (cookies) with each request. Some documentation to help you with this:

- Including credentials with fetch (set credentials: 'include' in request config)
- Including credentials with axios (set withCredentials: true in request config)

Postman will do this for you automatically.

#### POST /auth/login

##### Body Parameters

* name - the user’s name
* email - the user’s email

##### Example

```typescript
// API Request Function
...
body: {
    name: string,
    email: string
}
...
```

##### Response

###### 200 OK

An auth cookie, fetch-access-token, will be included in the response headers. This will expire in 1 hour.

#### POST /auth/logout

Hit this endpoint to end a user’s session. This will invalidate the auth cookie.

#### GET /dogs/breeds

##### Return Value

Returns an array of all possible breed names.

#### GET /dogs/search

##### Query Parameters

The following query parameters can be supplied to filter the search results. All are optional; if none are provided, the search will match all dogs.

* breeds - an array of breeds
* zipCodes - an array of zip codes
* ageMin - a minimum age
* ageMax - a maximum age

Additionally, the following query parameters can be used to configure the search:

* size - the number of results to return; defaults to 25 if omitted
* from - a cursor to be used when paginating results (optional)
* sort - the field by which to sort results, and the direction of the sort; in the format sort=field:[asc|desc].
  * results can be sorted by the following fields: breed, name, and age
  * ex: sort=breed:asc

##### Return Value

Returns an object with the following properties:

* resultIds - an array of dog IDs matching your query
* total - the total number of results for the query (not just the current page)
* next - a query to request the next page of results (if one exists)
* prev - a query to request the previous page of results (if one exists)

The maximum total number of dogs that will be matched by a single query is 10,000.

#### POST /dogs

##### Body Parameters

The body should be an array of no more than 100 dog IDs to fetch (no pun intended).

```typescript
// API Request Function
...
body: string[]
...
```

##### Return Value

Returns an array of dog objects

#### POST /dogs/match

##### Body Parameters

The body of this request should be an array of dog IDs.

##### Example

```typescript
// API Request Function
...
body: string[]
...
```

##### Return Value

This endpoint will select a single ID from the provided list of dog IDs. This ID represents the dog the user has been matched with for adoption.

```typescript
interface Match {
    match: string
}
```
